# 🎷 Remastered

A full-stack approach to React development.

https://remastered.hagever.com

#### 🎁 Open source

Owning your stack is important. Trying before committing to a
solution is even more important. Freedom provides everyone the
ability to create something and become a better developer. And if
something is broken... we can all fix it together!

#### 🔗 URL-first approach

The web is focused around hyperlinks. Remastered embraces URLs as
the most important building block. Use file-system routing to
declare URLs, and allow customers to share the experience of your
app with the world.

#### 📄 Server-side rendered SPA

Make sure your app loads as fast as it can, with no jitter and
"flash of unstyled content". Remastered serves your application
ready for action, even before JavaScript loads. And when it loads,
it acts as if you were building a single-page-application,
providing the great modern user-experience your customers expect
from a modern web-app.

#### 🔁 Hot module reloading

Don't squint! See the changes on your development environment once
you save a file! By leveraging [Vite](https://vitejs.dev), a futuristic JavaScript bundler that ensures you get the best
and fastest developer experience, no matter what size is your app.

#### ✨ Convenient data fetching

Instead of throwing useEffect everywhere, In Remastered, every
route can expose a co-located server-side data loader which gets
fetched automatically and stored in the history stack. All you
have to do is call a React hook to get it, synchronously.

#### 📦 File-system routing with automatic code-splitting

Only ships assets your clients need to interact with the page they
are visiting. Remastered will download the assets needed for new
interactions as soon as they are needed.

#### 🤩 Titles and Meta Tags... HTTP!

The `<title>` and the `<meta>` are
the way to share metadata about the current page in the web
platform. They can't be an afterthought! Remastered takes it very
seriously and provides and easy way to declare metadata for the
current page, allowing search engines and screen-readers to easily
understand what they are going to experience.

#### 👐 And so much more.

So many more stuff are baked in. Just come and
[read the docs to learn more!](https://remastered.hagever.com/)
